http://www.1point3acres.com/bbs/thread-136818-1-1.html
职位在这里：http://global.rakuten.com/corp/careers/engineering/ug/
网上投简历，第二天收到OA和Video Interview
OA在codility上面写，1小时，可以用c/c++,java, python, ruby，自带test case也可以自己写test case.
题目：给两个长方形4个顶点的坐标，计算重合部分的面积（intersection of tow rectangles）, stackoverflow上面有java写的solution，参考即可。
Video Interview 是5个behavior 问题，每个有1分钟准备时间和5分钟回答时间， 建议事先写好提纲，边看边说。
(1) Could we have your name and the reasonwhy you are interested in Rakuten?
(2) Please tell us your technicalbackground and how you will be able to contribute to the success of thecompany.
　　If you already have work experience,please share that as well.
(3) What is your greatest strength and howyou leverage your strength for peak performance?Please give us an example.
(4)This question is for only those whohave worked before
　　Have you ever changed your job? or are you trying to change yourjob?Please tell us why.
(5) What are your career goal and careerplans?
　　How does this job fit into your career plans?
注意：投简历的时候会要求选5个感兴趣的职位，OA和Video之后会根据简历和表现进行分组，我的首选是software engineer，次选是infrastructure engineer，
最后分到了第三选项datascientist.不过后来发现面试的是big data department （glassdoor上面的review说是最好的2个department之一，
另一个是smart device），反而觉得运气也挺不错。汇集各个国家的engineer，除了他们东京HQ，还有SF和Boston office.
2周后通知skype interview,HR说整个hiring process一共有3轮skype interview. 负责面试的是东京HQ的engineer或者manager,
每一轮就高一级，按照senior engineer, group manager, department manager的顺序.
skype interview 1: 面试官是一个白人和一个南美人，这一轮是technical. 先是面试官自我介绍，然后让我自我介绍；接着问简历上的project；
然后进入technical question，最后让我提问。基本上technical question全是根据简历来问，涵盖了math, coding, programming language.
面试题： 1. 已知 a>0, b>0, a+b<10, 证明ab<25; 2.coding: implement rand7 by using rand5 (写code的时候还有各种关于sampling,
expected value的提问); 3. izip and itertool in python; 4. how to plot x=y in matlab; 5.how to generate an integer array
form 1 to 1000 in matlab; 6. how to search all.txt file under the given directory in Linux; 7.difference between git
pull and git fetch; 8. give at least one new feature for C++11; give at least one newfeature for C99; 9. what's map
reduce; 10. tell me about your hadoopexperience; 11. tell me about your java experience.
整个面试过程很愉快，两个面试官也一直和蔼可亲的不断提示，最后问了一大堆问题他们也逐一详细回答。预定45分钟的面试最后进行了1个多小时，
而且第二天就收到第二轮Skype interview的通知，这是面试体验最好的一次。
Skype Interview
2:  这一轮是manager面试， behavior为主，面试官是一个日本太君。他的口音比想象的好多了，没有什么听不明白的，比起跟印度人面试的体验都好很多。
上来也是先互相自我介绍，然后问简历和个人兴趣，最后让我提问。
技术问题很少： 1. can you overload constructor in C++, how about destructor?
2.tell me your experience in java; 3. tell me your experience in machine learning
behavior问题都是常见的： 1. whyrakuten; 2. what's your strength; 3. why I should hire you;
4. What is your impression of Japanese
太君也很和蔼，整个面试过程很流畅， 2天后收到第三轮的通知。还有个小homework，给了本CEO的书，要写一个1000 char的essay （一个字母就是一个char, 空格标点也算，空行算2个）。
Final Interview: 这一轮比较看脸，有人是走过场的公司文化介绍，有的人是真刀真枪的干，我比较不幸的遇到后者。面试官是个挪威大汉，早年是创业先驱，有22年工作经验。整个过程和第一轮一样，不过侧重聊经验。
Technical: 1. tell me about your datascience experience; 2. tell me about your MS program; 3. tell me about yourbackground in Data Science; 4. reverse string, analyze time and spacecomplexity; 5. find loop in a linked list, time complexity
Behavior: 1. Why Japan? 2. Work in US orJapan; 3. Why Rakuten; 4. Why Big Data Department
这次的面试体验很差，是面试官迟到10分钟，而且北欧口音实在太可怕了让我第一次觉得听阿三口音是一件幸福的事情。而且面试官一直质疑我是EE出身，感觉他认为EE就是应该去搞硬件。
1周后HR发来邮件约offer meeting, 希望是留在美国不是去Tokyo HQ.

first round is the video interview. There are 5 question,
a. what's your name,
why Rakuten ?
b, what your technical background,
c what's your greatest strength?
d what's your career goal?
and there is program test, if you apply for engineer, if you apply for researcher, there is two program test.
You can search the program on the internet.


But the java part was tricky as there were lot of boundary conditions <codility style>


*** http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4549544/total-area-of-intersecting-rectangles
*** http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-two-rectangles-overlap/
http://articles.leetcode.com/2011/05/determine-if-two-rectangles-overlap.html


Strength and weakness and where do you want to see yourself after 5 years?


Codility interview question: (easy) find the standard deviation of an array.
Skype interview: questions about previous projects I have done


Coding test: given 2 rectangles described by their top-right and bottom-left coordinates,
return the top-right and bottom-left coordinates of the intersection. Time limit is 1 hour.


* Codility: Find the sum of the area of two possible overlapping rectangles.
* Pre-recorded video questions: They will be given to you in advance, so you will be able to prepare.
But basically, why rakuten, what can you bring to rakuten, your work and skills, etc. pretty standard stuff.


1 round: programming test and interview on line (video-recording)
2 round: interview with global marketing officer:
Why do u choose to work in Japan /
Why do u choose to Rakuten /
Have u joined some project before? /
Do u familiar with Web knowledge?
3 round: interview with head officer Tell me about the connection between your research and your proposed position? /
Writing different programming on the white board ...


After applying through a careers website, I was asked to complete a coding test and a prerecorded video interview.
The coding test was pretty easy; I had an hour to solve a given problem and test it.
It was unsupervised. The prerecorded video interview was really easy since they gave me the questions ahead of time
- why are you interested in the company,
- what's your greatest strength, etc.
Once I passed that step, they invited me to a Skype interview. I was told it was with engineers,
so I assumed they would ask me to code or at least come up with a way to solve a problem, but they were more general
knowledge questions
- 'tell me about this thing on your resume',
- 'have you ever done unit testing?', etc.
Also things like 'tell us about a book you've read recently on a technical topic', which I was not at all prepared for.
Also, there were three interviewers crowded around one screen, one of whom had a face mask on and none of whom
I could understand clearly. It was not great, and I knew by the end I hadn't passed.


The whole process is strictly time consuming. It takes almost 3 months. I applied for the new grad position
(software engineer) on their official recruitment website. First you need to register an account and upload your
resume to their recruitment website. One or more weeks later, you will receive their email to let you take the
online programming test and pre-recored video interview. The programming test seems keep unchanged for many years.
The questions of the pre-recored video interview has been written in the email. If you pass the first round screening,
you will receive an email to let you take the second interview from their HR after one or two weeks. The interviewer is
one of their engineers. No difficult technical problems. Most are the questions about your past experiences and behavior
questions. After that, you will be required to take third interview. The interview can be conducted via Skype.
The interviewer is also an engineer with higher position. Behavior questions. Final interview seems like a company
culture introduction. No more questions. I am still waiting for the final result.